A very Good Afternoon to all  honorable Director dr k nirmala mam,respected deen dr shalaka parkar mam and respected hod dr kavita suryavanshi mam ,seniors, and my dear friends.
My name is Ritu kataria, i am a student of first year MCA- sem II.
As we all all know the most beautiful thing about being an Indian is that India is a diverse land with many festivals. Every Year people eagerly wait for the arrival of festivals. They reflect the culture and religious diversity and the atmosphere is filled with zeal and happiness and Today i am feeling very obliged that i have got an oppurtunity to deliver my speech on this auspicious occasion and beautiful indian festival Guru Purnima which is also called as Vyasa Purnima, As teachers are believed to be one of the incarnations of Guru, I would like to begin my speech by heartily welcoming and respecting all the teachers present here.Guru Purnima is celebrated in the memory of the great sage Maharshi Veda Vyasa. This great saint edited the four vedas. He also wrote the eighteen Puranas, Mahabharata and the Srimad Bhagavat Gita.On this auspicious day, the spiritual devotees and the aspirants worship Maharshi Vyasa and the disciples worship their respective spiritual Gurudevs.
India is considered to be a land of Gurus, spiritual masters, and teachers. Guru Purnima is a major traditional festival that is celebrated throughout India with great fervor and zeal by Hindus and Buddhists. This day is celebrated on the full moon of the Ashadh month in the month of June or July. It is done to honor all the enlightened masters, Gurus, and teachers who have dedicated all their lives towards self-realization and spreading enlightenment throughout the world without any personal gain. This day is widely celebrated to recognize the significant contribution of teachers in our life. It is a day to remind the importance of Gurus and pay our respect to them. specially in this phase of pandemic where everything has gone on online mode including our studies, it has become a very challenging task for all the teachers to teach the students because of lack of sincierity in students they don't even respond and interact in class but still our teachers are giving their best and putting in so much of efforts to engage students in studies for their better fututre just so that we can achieve something good in our life they try to make the session interesting as dipti mam include videos in her lecture and give real world examples so that we feel more related to the concepts and be attentive in classs. so all these things are really appreciable and that is what a guru does, the word guru consists of two sanskrit words, where 'gu' means darkness and 'ru' means someone who removes darkness. In sanskrit guru means literally dispeller of darkness.
An age-old Sanskrit phrase 'Mata Pitah Guru Daivam' says that the first place is reserved for the mother, second for the father, third for the guru and fourth for the God. thus, teachers have been given a higher place than god in Hindu tradition.
We find different Gurus in different walks of life. A real-life Guru can be anyone who guides you and makes effort to push you to the road of success.Teachers shape our morals as we step into the future. As we grow old, we find our Guru in our friends who helps and motivates us in various significant ways to reach our life goals.Guru Purnima is a grand day that is significant to revive the connection between the students and the teachers in both academic and spiritual ways. Students and disciples all over the world dedicate this day to their teachers. It is a societal and religious celebration. 
This festival is deeply rooted in our ancient education system of Guru Shishya tradition that is considered to be sacred. The teachings and life of holy enlightened masters are again recalled. Students are motivated to follow the wisdom and knowledge of spiritual gurus. In the present era where moral values and the feeling of mutual respect are declining, it has become very essential to understand the importance of this festival. So, let us all celebrate Guru Purnima by paying deep gratitude and devotion towards all our Gurus for their guidance.
 
Now i would like to conclude my speech by paying my gratitude towards all those people who have played the role of a Guru in my life. I really wish i could take the blessings of all my respected teachers on this auspicious day by being their but nevermind since we are seeking our knowledge virtually i will consider i am having their virtual blessings as well. Thank you so much.